In this exercise, you identified existing assets on the exercises Windows 10 VM.
This is so you could analyze those assets to determine and categorize risks,
threats, vulnerabilities, and exploits.
For part 1 of the exercise,
first sign into the Windows 10 virtual PC.
Once there, right-click on the Start bar,
we often think about using the left mouse button,
but the right one often has many more options.
From here, review the different options such as Apps and Features,
and Event Viewer shows you what has happened on this PC.
System provides system information.
Device Manager shows what devices are connected to the PC.
Network Connections is how you can set up the network.
This is the layering of defense we learned about earlier.
Disk management is how you can manage the hard disks associated with this system,
and Computer Management provides a lot of different options for managing this local PC.
I'll start by showing the System.
When you right-click on System info from the start bar,
it shows you all of the information about this particular PC,
including if virus and threat protection is on and firewalls.
What type of application and browser controls?
Do you have identity and account protection, and device security?
Also shows you the device name,
the type of processor,
amount of RAM, and the system type like this is a 64-bit operating system.
You also can see the windows specification,
which is the version of the Windows operating system.
This is Windows 10 Pro using version 1909,
and when it was installed.
I'll often use this system information to tell me if
this PC needs to be updated with patches or the latest upgrade for Microsoft.
Another option when you right-click is absent features.
When you right-click on Apps and Features,
this basically shows you all of the applications available within this Windows PC.
You can see when it was installed and how much space they are taking.
If you're running out of disk space,
maybe you want to uninstall one of these applications and hey, look,
we have lots of games installed that just happen to
be installed by default with Windows 10,
these actually could be uninstalled.
Just click on it and you can choose the uninstall option.
Use the Apps and Features to determine what are
viable applications that should be on this PC based on the business need.
I'll now show you Computer Management when you right-click the start bar.
Computer Management has a lot of additional information about the system,
including an event viewer.
This shows what has been happening on the system.
Shared folders.
If you recall from a previous video,
we can use this to determine what folders have been shared with which users,
the local users and groups will show the users that are on this system.
If there were any accounts created that shouldn't be,
we can go here to remove them.
We can also create a new user in this window by right-clicking.
Again, think of right-click rather than left,
right-clicking and selecting "New User".
Also available from Computer Management is
the option to view the services and applications.
If I click the little arrow next to services and applications,
select "Services", you can see all of the different services running on this system.
These are the little programs that are in the background we often don't consider.
There are many options within Computer Management.
Take some time to explore either on your own or using this virtual PC.
In the last part of this exercise,
you once again review
the local security policy that is just found by going to the run bar
type local security policy and click on the App within the local security policy,
you can click on Account Policies to be able
to see the password policy and the account lockout.
You can also use the local policies and set an audit policy. What does this mean?
Well, this is what is locked about the events that are happening this local PC.
For example, when people log in,
right now there's no auditing.
But if I want to capture anytime anyone has
successfully logged in or there were any failures,
I can just select the checkboxes next to each of these option.
You can always click on the explain tab to learn more about this particular function.
When I'm ready, I click "Apply" then "Okay",
and you can see now that account management will log any success or failures.
Under security options, there's a lot of different capabilities and configuration items.
Take some time to look and read through these,
understand what they mean and how they work.
I'll leave it up to you to spend some time to
review these as there's a lot of information here.
Local security policy is where you set all of
the policies for this local machine regarding security and privacy settings.
Take some time to read through these and understand how each of them work.